# Database Schma Engine

# Description

This libarary can be used to generate database schema based on provided database framework. Currently supported database frameworks
are SFCDB and SQLite.

**Target Framework Version:**
 -.Net 6.0

# Architecture
** Diagram here **
- Explaination.

# Prerequisites
To use the specific database framework version, below setup is required.

## Application Configuration Settings

There is a common setup required to generate the metadata, regardless the database framework version you want to use.

**Common Setup**
- Domain Model Metadata Output File Path - This is a file path for metadata which will be generated for the entities.
        <add key="schema:domain-model-metadata:File.outputPath" value="DomainModelMetadata.metadata" />
- Allow Entity Update - If user wants to update the entities from the metadata file. The value for below setting can be set as true.
        <add key="schema:domain-model:allowEnityUpdateFromFile" value="true" />


**SCFDB**
- Template Directory Path - This path will contain the template files required for SFCDB schema generation. Replace the TEMPLATE_PATH with the actual path on your machine.
        <add key="schema:sfcdb:database-schema-template:Directory.path" value="TEMPLATE_PATH" />
- Output Directory Path - This path will contain the database schema files generated by the schema engine.Replace the OUTPUT_PATH with actual path on your machine.
        <add key="schema:sfcdb:database-schema:Directory.outputPath" value="OUTPUT_PATH" />

**SQLite**
- Template Directory Path - This path will contain the template files required for SQLite schema generation. Replace the TEMPLATE_PATH with the actual path on your machine.
        <add key="schema:sqlite:database-schema-template:Directory.path" value="TEMPLATE_PATH" />
- Output Directory Path - This path will contain the database schema files generated by the schema engine.Replace the OUTPUT_PATH with actual path on your machine.
        <add key="schema:sqlite:database-schema:Directory.outputPath" value="OUTPUT_PATH" />

# Using the Library

- This library provides a service interface IDatabaseSchemaGeneratorService. To generate the database schema call the method IDatabaseSchemaGeneratorService.GenerateDatabaseSchema.

**Input**
Fill the input details for type of ISchemaGenerationInput.
- TargetFramework - type of TargetDatabaseFrameworkValues
- EntityDetails - type of IEnumerable<IEntityDetail>
- FormattingRules - type of IEnumerable<ILookup>

**Output**
This service call with generate following output of type ISchemaGenerationOutput
- ValidationMessages - type of List<string>, validation messages for the schema input.
- IsSuccess - type of bool, indiactes if the schema generation was successful.

# Background information

